# Word Sense Extension
This is the GitHub repository containing code implementations and data for the following ACL 2023 paper:

_Yu, L. and Xu, Y. (2023) Word sense extension. In Proceedings of the The 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics._

## Data
See the 8 .csv files under the ```/data/``` directory for word usage data used for WSE and WSD experiments. These dataframes can be generated by running the code under the ```/code/data_prep/``` directory.  

## Code for data preparations

Python files for preparing the usage data are located under the ```/code/data_prep/``` directory:

-- ```preprocess.py```: code for preprocessing the wikitext-103 corpus using SpaCy.

-- ```wsd.py```: code for annotating word sense labels the preprocessed wikitext-103 corpus through automated WSD models.

-- ```sense_usage_data_prep.py```: code for preparing usage dataframes for WSE and WSD experiments.

-- ```cse_data_prep.py```: code for preparing datasets for sense extensional space learning.

## Code for word sense extension (WSE) experiments

Python files for WSE experiments are located under the ```/code/wse/``` directory:

-- ```pretrain_mlm.py```: code for pretraining BERT-based language models from scratch on usage data of partitioned tokens.

-- ```wse_train.py```: code for learning sense-extensional semantic space and evaluating the learned WSE models.

## Code for word sense disambiguation (WSD) experiments

Python files for WSD experiments are located under the ```/code/wsd/``` directory:

-- ```wsd_models.py```: implementations of the original BEM WSD model in (Blevins et al., 2020).

-- ```wsd_main.py```: code for training and evaluating BEMs with and without sense-extensional space learning on the standard WSD evaluation framework by (Raganato et al., 2017).
